Danilo Mendes
Software Engineer Student
1890 Nautical Way NE 304
Palm Bay, FL, 32905
+1 321 368 1231
dan.b412@gmail.com
github.com/DaniloBarros
linkedin.com/in/mendesdanilo
urionlinejudge.com.br/judge/en/profile/44573

Professional Summary
Highly skilled software engineer student, offering diverse work environment experiences and well trained iOS development. Self-learning and motivated engineer with expertise in software development life-cycle, who works effectively in a dynamic environment. Professional skilled at developing simple solutions for complex problems, passionate for the mobile universe, dedicated to constantly improving tools and adaptable to the changing needs of the business. Highly organized with strong capacity to prioritize workload, delegate deliverables, and steer project completion within established deadlines.

Core Competencies
iOS / Android
Multi-Threaded Programming
Data structures / Algorithms
Fast Learner / Self-driven
Software Life-cycle
Entrepreneurial spirit
Software Testing
Advanced problem solving skills
Troubleshooting and debugging
Curious about the unknown

Education
Bachelor of Science in Software Engineering
Florida Institute of Technology, Melbourne, FL
Aug 2015 - Present
Transferred to Florida Institute of Technology on the third year of college, with a 5 year program.

Bachelor of Science in Software Engineering
University of Brasilia, Brasilia, Brazil
Aug 2012 - Aug 2015

Skills
Programming Languages 9/10
Objective-C, Swift, C/C++, Java

Database 8/10
MySQL, Sqlite, Core Data

Web 8/10
HTML, XML, RDF, OWL, CSS, JSON, REST

Development/Environment Tools/ Techniques 9/10
Xcode, MS Visual Studio, Eclipse, Embarcadero XE2, VIM, Git, IBM RUP, JUnit, Scrum, Extreme Programming,Test-Driven Development, SAFe, Bizagi(BPMS), MVC Architecture, Object-Oriented Programming

Operating Systems 8/10
Linux, Windows XP/7/8, MacOS X

Work History
iOS Developer
Brazilian Education Program for iOS Development - BEPiD
iOS Developer, BEPiD, Brasilia, DF, Brazil
Feb 2015 - Aug 2015
Developed applications in both Objective C and Swift.
Published 2 Apps (Librowl and Chubby) in Apple Store with a small group of 3 people.
Worked side by side with UI designers and created the Auto Layout for Iphone/Ipad.
Worked on a agile environment with Challenge Based Learning approach.
Delivered daily, semanal and monthly programs with short deadlines.
Attended several seminars and trainings improving my entrepreneurial skills.
Worked with state of the art equipment.
Environment managed by Eldorado in collaboration with Apple, Inc.
http://www9.eldorado.org.br/en http://www.bepid.com.br

Researcher
University of Brasilia
Researcher, Campus Universitário Darcy Ribeiro, Brasília, Brazil
Jul 2014 - Dec 2014
Researched tactics and approaches to develop and implement an ontology.
RDF, OWL, XML and HTML were the core languages of the project.
Protégé 2000 was the main tool used to design the ontology.
Developed with the IBM Rational Unified Process (RUP) project life-cycle.
Worked with the Brazilian Ministry of Planning (MP/SLTI) under the University of Brasilia contract.
Learned the process of acquiring data and the internal organization of the open data, managed by the Brazilian Ministry of Planning.

Researcher
University of Brasilia
Researcher, Campus Universitário Darcy Ribeiro, Brasília, Brazil
Jan 2014 - Jun 2014
Developed a solution, in C++, to display the big data gathered from satellites.
Used MS Visual Studio and Embarcadero XE2, the latter used for the user end.
Researched a optimal way to display big data (ITK and OpenGL).
Created test cases and maintained automate testing.
Researched data to prove bad impacts of the construction of the high-speed train Rio de Janeiro-São Paulo-Campinas.

Certifications
Technical course on computer graphics
School of Art, Game and Animation
Jan 2010 - Dec 2012
Course covered the techniques on computer graphics creation, since the creative step through the fine details. Going through the areas of digital painting, vector shaping, 3D modeling, 3D animation, 3D rendering, clay modeling, web design front end and video making/editing.

Accomplishments
Designed and implemented the app Librowl ( https://goo.gl/IWT8Gt - iTunes site).
Developed in Objective-C with source code hosted on a private Git Hub repository.
Librowl uses RESTful approaches to connect to the google books api and its server.
Front-end using Storyboard and Auto-Layout (programmatically and interface builder).
Application is connected to Parse and stores most of its data there.
Integrated with facebook API.
Librowl is still in constant development, next release feature will be real time chat.

Designed and implemented the game Chubby ( https://goo.gl/RdJZYN - iTunes site).
Chubby is fully implemented with the Sprite Kit framework.
Used third-party libraries to implement parallax.
Developed with a team of 3 people in 3 weeks.
Chubby source code is hosted on a private Git Hub repository.

Fourth place in the Second National Hackaton of Educational Data.
Hosted by the National Institute of Studies and Educational Researches Anísio Texeira (INEP).
I was signed under with the "De Olho No ENADE" team.
Within the 30 hours of the event my team developed an Android App that searched and displayed a rank of the best universities and colleges, according to the INEP open data. https://goo.gl/Efi3Em Hackaton website
Unfortunately the App has been removed from Google Play, but some websites indexed it. (http://goo.gl/hxAZkK Third party website indexed .apk)

Languages
English - Fluent
Portuguese - Fluent
German - Basic

Volunteer Work
Class assistant | March 2013 - July 2014 | University of Brasilia | Brasilia, DF, Brazil
I worked up to 8h per week, helping students and professors in university classes. I covered Basic Programming and Data Structures classes throughout this period.